One important note the dimensions API is by far most important API you have and React Native when it
comes to dynamically working with the way lable width and height.
It's part of React Native and does not depend on export or anything like that.
Ex bill however also gives you an API you can use you can import something from expo in this day for
only works and expo apps of course and that's the screen orientation object.
This is an object which helps you detect screen orientation changes and also lock the screen orientation
when your app is running.
So even if you initially set no lock here in your app Jason file you can still add one after you started
your app with the help of that API.
The screen orientation API has a couple of functionalities and I want to quickly walk you through them.
You can of course play around with them to learn more about them.
For example you have to lock async method this locks the orientation in the end and you set the lock.
By and by now using screen orientation dot and there you set this to orientation lock and then for example
to portrayed or portrait down portrait ops or a lot of configuration possibilities you have here and
now I'm calling this in the game screen.
This means that I can freely rotate this as long as I'm configuring the game but as soon as the game
starts you'll see that the orientation doesn't change anymore so that can be useful if you need to lock
this down when your app reaches a certain point.
In addition to that discrete orientation API here also gives you a function to get the current orientation
and async simply means that this gives you a promise that doesn't immediately do that.
It gives you a promise where you eventually get the result but the result will be data very quick.
Just not in the next code line immediately and you can also set up a orientation change listener for
example and this orientation change listener will do what it sounds like.
It fires a function whenever your orientation changes that can be useful if you have different layouts
that only depend on the question whether you're in portrait or landscape mode and not so much on the
dimensions because of course it's important to keep in mind that with the code we wrote here with use
effect where we listen to changes in the dimensions we technically don't just react to orientation changes
though that typically is what changes the available width and height.
There isn't really anything else that could change it but you're not strictly only checking for whether
your orientation changed and you can't directly check for the orientation changed and is now portrayed.
Instead you could listen for a change and then in the function you fire checked a new available with
and kind of find out.
OK.
This is a lot of with we're probably in landscape now that is something you can guess but you don't
know because you're checking for the width and the height not for the orientation.
Now typically it's the width and height that matters to you.
Though you might not be interested whether you're in landscape mode and have a lot of width or whether
the app is running one eye patch and therefore has more width than on a phone you just might be interested
in the question how much with do I have and then render your layout based on that no matter if that's
the case because you're in the landscape phone or a portrait mode iPad.
So they offered you dimensions API is the important API but I didn't want to hide the screen orientation
API Expo exposes from you especially because it can also be used for locking and unlocking of course
the orientation at runtime which can be useful at times.